---
title: The SVG element
layout: dataviz
last_modified_at: 2017-08-12
permalink: d3-viz-course/the-svg-element
categories: [adv]
---

There's a little gem built into the Web Platform, actually present since a lot, that is able to drive a huge creative movements in the tech industries.

That technology is called [Scalable Vector Graphics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics), a standard specification by the W3C, implemented in all recent browsers, aimed to render graphic elements into the browser using a markup language.

The **SVG** may look a simple HTML tag.
You can write it down quite easily like:

```html
<svg></svg>
```

But it's not that simple, though. 
Indeed, it can be very powerful in terms of output capabilities.
It's like having a little Illustrator at you fingers.

**Feeling lost?**
Get back to thi article first if you want to learn some basic stuff to set up an HTML page.

## The powerful tag

The **SVG** tag allows to put a blank canvas into an HTML document that can be filled with graphic shapes, for instante rectangles, circles, lines, paths to name a few.
It's like having one, or more, mini Illustrator within an HTML page.

In this article I'm going to outline the basic of SVG element tag.
It's fundamental if you want to use libraries like [d3.js](https://d3js.org) since it works very well with it.

## How to configure it

Adding the tag is quite simple, just add it somewhere within the **body** of the HTML file:

```html
<body>
	<svg></svg>
</body>
```

You may want to set a specific size in pixels:

```html
<body>
	<svg width="500" height="300"></svg>
</body>
```

So far, nothing visible yet. Let's try to add something visible, then.

## The visual elements

Are you a pro on **Adobe Illustrator**? It this case you might recognize some common paradigms.

The **SVG** tag can include several other tags that belong to the SVG specification.
That means those elements work only into the SVG tag. Outside of it they will become invisible and useless.

If you know a bit Adobe Illustrator of similar vector editing software you can understand easily the type of element you can use in the SVG.

This about it. What you can do in Illustrator?
Usually you can draw ```rectangles```, ```circles```, ```lines```, free ```paths and shapes``` and ultimately ```texts```.

But first some rules that might help you to understand better the following part:

- the **svg tag** can contain *svg element tags*
- *svg element tags* define the type of shapes
- *svg element tags* cannot contain other tags
- *svg element tags* allow the use of attributes to modify some parameters
- each type of element tag understand a specific set of attributes

Guess what? Take a look of this quick journey to see how it is familiar to you:

Draw a rectangle shape:

```html
<svg width="500" height="300">
  <rect width="100" height="50"></rect>
</svg>
```

Position somewhere relative to the canvas size (coordinates in pixels are relative to the top-left origin point):

```html
<svg width="500" height="300">
  <rect x="40" y="70" width="100" height="50"></rect>
</svg>
```

Do you need a bit of colors?

```html
<svg width="500" height="300">
  <rect fill="orange" stroke="#ff0000" x="40" y="70" width="100" height="50"></rect>
</svg>
```

Time to make some transformation:

```html
<svg width="500" height="300">
  <rect transform="rotate(45deg)" fill="orange" stroke="#ff0000" x="40" y="70" width="100" height="50"></rect>
</svg>
```

That's all for now. Hope this helped a bit.

Go to the next lesson: [Include the library](include-the-library)