---
title: Crisis
date:   2018-03-08 14:00:00 +0100
subtitle: 8th March, 2018
style: red
categories: Opinions
tags: [opinion, general, thoughts, feeling]
---

I've started to think about the term **crisis** after some random news I've read somewhere.

This fact made me think deeper about the meaning of those events in general.
People experience this type of situation all the time.
Maybe there is a key to interpretation that might help me to understand better.
Something kicked in my mind after reading the official ```crisis``` definition:

> Any event that is, or is expected to lead to, an unstable and dangerous situation affecting an individual, group, community or society.

Basically, it's something negative because it changes a given equilibrium bringing inevitably into something different.

The **dangerous** connotation depends on the situation, though.

In human life, a crisis needs to be pair with another concept which is the **resilience**, the capacity to adapt to changes without break or sunk.

> The crisis is the fact, the resilience is the reaction to that fact.

In [psychology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_resilience), the resilience of a human being is the process of learning and understanding that leads to the subsequent reaction against a particular sudden negative situation.

It's not a positive feeling since the first reaction typically involves upset behaviors, to say the least.
But if the next feeling goes toward finding solutions instead of blaming someone or something, chances are the resilience process (which is a positive process) has been started instead of a negative one that might conduct into something dangerous.

To deconstruct a bit the initial definition, the crisis leads, for sure, to an unstable situation, the dangerous part arises (or not) based on how the human being reacts to that instability.