---
title: Goodbye 2019
date:   2019-12-30 08:00:00 +0100
subtitle: 30th December, 2019
style: red
cover: cover.png
categories: Opinions
tags: [opinion, goodbye, general, thoughts]
---

This post marks the third year in a row of this blog. **I can't believe it!**

## The current status

In this third year, I've kept publishing (25 posts) but still in an **infrequent** way. Even the *"Goodbye Year"* post has been written infrequently. This is an issue. It's something I'd like to handle in a different way.

The type of content slightly consolidated to be more technical in the form of tutorial. I post general stuff in a separated section, the [log](/blog/log), where I put external resources and quick thoughts as well.

To my surprise, I've noticed that I've started to use my blog as a resource for myself, to recall something I've annotated in the past. I should implement a better way to search on it though, I have some ideas that I hope to implement during the next year.

I want to be more regular in writing. 
I'd like to book a daily portion of my time pursuing that activity, to give it the right weight.
This might be part of my *new year resolution*.

## A side project

[**PRESENTA**](https://www.presenta.cc/) has been a side project since the beginning. I still love working on it but I'd like to dedicate more time. I continue to learn a lot from it and I enjoy challenging myself handling a digital product from a variety of points of view.

I've also started to write articles in the field of *presentation* and *communication* on its dedicated [blog](https://www.presenta.cc/blog/). It's something that helps me to keep the right focus on product design.

## Digital detox and personal habits

A few years ago I've started to reflect about my relationship with the digital world. I don't like the way it grab my attention and my focus so easily. Back then, I've decided to take action and this is what I've reached so far:

- I've removed the Twitter and Linkedin apps from my phone 2 years ago
- I've removed all the email accounts from my phone 1 year ago
- I've recently quit with Linkedin (not deleted yet, but I simply stop using it)
- I've to get rid of any analytics on my websites (making them fully GDPR compliant without using weird banners)
- I'm limiting my Twitter usage (only on my computer and only in a specific time of the day)

I'm quite happy with the actual relationship with my phone, which is for 95% a simple *old-fashioned* phone with some extra capability (e.g. finding a place with the map, checking the closing time of a store, finding a phone number of a restaurant).

No doubt that getting rid of these distractions allowed me pursuing on other stuff I'm more interested.

My actual feeling is that I can do more, maybe I could get to like it.

**See you in 2020!**